OCT 24th Tasks.

Task1:

Difference between compiler and Interpreter 

Interpreter translates just one statement of the program at a time into machine code.
Keeps translating the program continuously till the first error is confronted. If any error is spotted, it stops working and hence debugging becomes easy.


Compiler scans the entire program and translates the whole of it into machine code at once.
A compiler generates the error message only after it scans the complete program and hence debugging is relatively harder while working with a compiler.



Task2:

Rules for creating variable in python

A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
It cannot start with a number
It only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )


Task3:

difference between python 2 and python 3 version

Python 3 syntax is simpler and easily understandable whereas Python 2 syntax is comparatively difficult to understand.
Python 3 default storing of strings is Unicode whereas Python 2 stores need to define Unicode string value with “u.”
Python 3 value of variables never changes whereas in Python 2 value of the global variable will be changed while using it inside for-loop.

Task4:

Complex data type in python

A complex number has two parts, real part and imaginary part. Complex numbers are represented as A+Bi or A+Bj, where A is real part and B is imaginary part.
Python supports complex data type as built-in feature which means we can directly perform different operations on complex number in python

Task5:

prime number
A prime number is a natural number greater than 1 that is not a product of two smaller natural numbers. Eg. 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13

factorial
The factorial of a number is the function that multiplies the number by every natural number below it.
eg. 3!= 3*2*1


fibonacci series
In case of fibonacci series, next number is the sum of previous two numbers for example 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21 etc. The first two numbers of fibonacci series are 0 and 1.


Armstrong number
Armstrong number is a number that is equal to the sum of cubes of its digits. For example 0, 1, 153, 370, 371 and 407

odd/even/positive/negative
odd number like 1,3,9
even number like 2,4,8
postivie numbers +1,+2
Negative numbers like -1,-2,-9


complex number
In mathematics, a complex number is a number that can be expressed in the form a + bi, where a and b are real numbers, and i is a symbol, called the imaginary unit


palindrome
A palindrome is a word, sentence, verse, or even number that reads the same backward or forward. Eg. Malayalam , Eve

anagram
An anagram is a word or phrase formed by rearranging the letters of a different word or phrase.
